Doc: add guidance on taking over a stale pull request (#13877)
mne-tools/mne-python: doc/development/contributing.rst

    Short description of the changes, by `Firstname Lastname`_. (:gh:`12346`)

.. _taking-over-a-stale-pr:

Taking over a stale pull request
---------------------------------

> If a pull request has been abandoned, you can take it over. Always credit

Reviewer: We should also specify a bit more about establishing whether a PR is abandoned. E.g.:
- the PR hasn't seen a commit in several weeks, and the author hasn't already stated that they will continue working on the PR after a certain period of time
- the author of the original PR is pinged with a question about whether they intend to contribute further to the PR, and they confirm they will not contribute further or they don't respond after 1 week

WDYT @drammock?

Reviewer 2: 2 weeks, to allow for holidays etc

the original author by adding a ``Co-authored-by`` trailer to your commit
message::

>     Co-authored-by: Original Author Name <their-email@example.com>

Reviewer: 1. Worth specifying that only _**one**_ commit needs to include the original author as a co-author, e.g., a commit that adds or edits a changelog entry.
2. I think this crediting info should come at the end, alongside the instructions about adding them to `names.inc` and including them in the changelog entry.

To build on top of their existing branch:

.. code-block:: bash

    git remote add original-author https://github.com/<their-username>/mne-python.git
    git fetch original-author

>     git checkout -b takeover-XXXXX original-author/<their-branch-name>

Reviewer: @drammock In your issue you noted:
> could also explain how to do it after-the fact (e.g. rebase against stale PR)

Do you think that's still worth mentioning?
My worry about working directly on another person's branch would be if they delete it whilst someone else is working on a new PR.

Reviewer 2: probably not worth mentioning, will likely be rare, we can always add later if it turns out not to be rare

Then push to your fork and open a new PR referencing the original

> (e.g., "Takes over :gh:`XXXXX`"). Make sure their name is in

Reviewer: I suggest specifying that "Takes over..." can be in the PR description rather than the title (like how referencing issues is handled).
Maybe also worth mentioning to still include a "Fixes #XYZ" for the original issue.

> ``doc/changes/names.inc`` and credit them in the changelog entry, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``doc/changes/names.inc`` and credit the original author in the changelog entry, e.g.:
```

.. code-block:: rst

>     Short description, by `Your Name`_ and `Original Author`_. (:gh:`XXXXX`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Short description of the changes, by `Your Name`_ and `Original Author`_.
```

Towncrier automatically generates a link to the PR which the change comes from. Manually adding links is only needed when the changes come from more than 1 PR (see the end of [this section in the contribution guide](https://mne.tools/stable/development/contributing.html#describe-your-changes-in-the-changelog)). In this case, the changes would not really be considered as coming from the old PR, just the one that gets merged.

    Short description of the changes, by `Firstname Lastname`_. (:gh:`12346`)

.. _taking-over-a-stale-pr:

Taking over a stale pull request
--------------------------------

If a pull request has been abandoned, someone else can take it over. A PR is generally
considered abandoned when there have been no commits for several weeks, and the original
author has not already indicated that they plan to continue at a later time. In this
case, first ping the author in a comment on the PR, asking if they intend to continue
working on it. If the original author replies that they do not intend to continue the
work, or there is no reply after at least 2 weeks, you can take over the PR.

To build on top of the original author's existing work, you can add a copy of the branch
they were working on to your fork:

.. code-block:: bash

    git remote add original-author https://github.com/original-author/mne-python.git
    git fetch original-author

>     git checkout -b your-branch-name original-author/their-branch-name

Reviewer 2: git is generally happier when local branch name matches remote name (also helps avoid human errors) so `your-branch-name` and `their-branch-name` is not a great way to illustrate this. Maybe `new-feature`?
```suggestion
    git checkout -b some-new-feature original-author/some-new-feature
```

You can then push any further commits to, and open a PR from, this new branch on your
fork.

Reference the original PR number in the description of the new PR (e.g., "Takes over

> #12345"), and keep any links to the corresponding issue (e.g., "Fixes #12340").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reference the original PR number in the description of the new PR (e.g., "Closes
#12345 (supersedes)"), and keep any links to the corresponding issue (e.g., "Fixes #12340").
```
